# RB 130 Lesson 3 Notes

- What is a project?

    A collection of files that contains anything needed to build software that is working, tested, and able to be used by others. It could be a program, but it could also be a collection of other types of software. Ruby projects by convention follow the Rubygems standard, which is a systematic way to format/organize files and an expectation of what kind of files will be included in the project.

    For Ruby projects, test files should be stored in a `test`  directory and program code files (source code) should be stored in the `lib` directory. 

- What do you get when you install Ruby?

    [Link](https://launchschool.com/books/core_ruby_tools/read/your_ruby_installation#whatgetsinstalledwithruby)

    The `ruby` command line command, `irb`, `rake`, `gem`, core and standard libraries, and a few other documentation tools.

- What are RubyGems? Give a few examples of Gems.

    Installable packages of code that can be run or used in Ruby programs or from the command line, managed by the `gem` command. You can search for the name of the Gem you want to install, then run `gem install` and the name of the Gem to install it. `rubocop` and `pry` are both examples of Gems. These Gems are found in remote libraries - the most common is the RubyGems Library, but workplaces/schools can have their own specialized remote libraries. When you download the Gem, it is accessible on your own system, the local library.

- How do you find out more information about a particular Gem in your local library system?

    Run the command `gem env`. This will tell us information about the Ruby version, and Ruby executable which means which version of Ruby the Gem is meant to run with which can be helpful if there is a difference between the Ruby version on the local system and the version expected by the Gem. Installation directory is where `gem` installs Gems. An executable installation directory is where `gem` stores command line commands. Remote sources and shell path contain information about where the Gem is found and where Ruby looks on your system for a file/program. 

- What is a Ruby version manager?

    A Ruby version manager is a program that manages multiple versions of Ruby on the same system, which can be useful if a program depends on a certain version of Ruby or if you are switching between projects that use different versions of Ruby. The two most common are RVM and rbenv. RVM is more dynamic: it will modify the `PATH` variable, replacing the `cd` with the version-specific shell function so that the `ruby` command uses the correct version. rbenv uses scripts called shims that are located in a directory that is always run first and communicates to the system which Ruby version to use. Both programs essentially follow the same search sequence to determine which version of Ruby to use based on a `.ruby-version` file. They are different in that rbenv makes a one-time change to the system and is thus less likely to go wrong. RVM is more dynamic in its changes to the environment and system commands.

---

- What is Bundler?

    When you have a project that has complex dependencies and needs different versions of Ruby to manage different parts of its program and its Gems, in order for the project to function properly it needs to know which version of Ruby to run for each part of the program. This is especially helpful if another developer wants to use your program on another server. A Ruby version manager can do this, but a dependency manager is preferred. The most common dependency manager is the Bundler Gem, which is a program that looks for information about which Ruby and Gem versions to use for what in a `Gemfile`.  An app that uses Bundler should put this at the beginning of the app: `require `bundler/setup``

- What is `Gemfile` ?

    Bundler looks for a file named `Gemfile` that lists all the dependencies needed for the program. A `Gemfile` contains information about where to find the Gem, if it needs a `.gemspec` file, the version of Ruby used, and any Gems used by the project. The `bundle install` command scans and locks down the information about the different versions and their dependencies and saves this information in a `Gemfile.lock` file.

- [Details of how to set up a Gemfile](https://launchschool.com/lessons/2fdb1ef0/assignments/61b773fd)
- [Summary of Bundler](https://launchschool.com/books/core_ruby_tools/read/bundler#summary)

    ---

- What is Rake?

    Rake is a built-in Rubygem, a Ruby program that allows us to automate commands needed to help us develop, test, and run the program. It is useful when we need to make sure we execute tasks in a certain order or without typos - it lowers the probability of user error when working with a program, as well as speeding up the process.

    Rake uses a file in the project's directory named `Rakefile` that contains a list of tasks, each containing a description of the task and a block of code or dependencies. The `desc` method provides a description of the task, and the `task` method associates a name (a symbol) with code (or other tasks). You can run the task by running `bundle exec rake` and the task name (without the : ). It is possible to have a default task that doesn't require a specific name.

- [Setting up the Rakefile](https://launchschool.com/lessons/2fdb1ef0/assignments/f0ffb4db)

---

- [Preparing a Rubygem](https://launchschool.com/lessons/2fdb1ef0/assignments/918536a2)
- [Summary](https://launchschool.com/lessons/2fdb1ef0/assignments/8baba62e)

### Docs

[Ruby Gems documentation](https://guides.rubygems.org/)

[Ruby Gems Basic page](http://guides.rubygems.org/rubygems-basics/)

[https://launchschool.com/lessons/2fdb1ef0/assignments/1752fa44](https://launchschool.com/lessons/2fdb1ef0/assignments/1752fa44)